---
layout: post
title: Minecraft 1.21 - Tricky Trials
---

It's a fantastic day today, because it's release day Thursday! And not just any old release day. This one is extra special because today we're shipping Minecraft: Java Edition 1.21, also known as the Tricky Trials Update!<br>

Venture into the hazardous Trial Chambers alone or with friends, face off against the new Breeze mob and craft a smashingly powerful new weapon, the Mace! Take your ingenious Redstone designs to new heights with the Crafter, play around with the Wind Charge, discover new decorative blocks made of Copper and Tuff, enjoy new Paintings, Music Discs, and more!<br>

And that's not all! On the technical side, Tricky Trials is heralding a new age for data packs with Enchantments, Paintings and Jukebox Music Discs now being data-driven. With this release, we're also going live with performance improvements to chunk loading that were introduced in 24w19a, which reduces memory and CPU overhead compared to the old system.<br>

Embark on your very first adventure in Tricky Trials by delving into the full changelog below, it's a long one!<br>

Happy mining!<br>

**NEW FEATURES:**<br>
* Added a new underground structure called the Trial Chambers
* Added 2 new mobs
    * Breeze
    * Bogged
* Added a new weapon, the Mace
* Added 3 new enchantments exclusive to the Mace
    * Density
    * Breach
    * Wind Burst
* Added the following blocks:
    * Crafter
    * Trial Spawner
    * Ominous Trial Spawner
    * Vault
    * Ominous Vault
    * New variants in the Copper Family
    * New variants in the Tuff Family
    * Heavy Core
* Added the following items:
    * Trial Explorer Map
    * Ominous Bottle
    * Wind Charge
    * Trial Key
    * Ominous Trial Key
    * Breeze Rod
    * 3 new Pottery Sherds
    * 2 new Banner Patterns
    * 2 new Armor Trims
    * 4 new Potions
        * Potion of Infestation
        * Potion of Oozing
        * Potion of Weaving
        * Potion of Wind Charging
    * 4 new Tipped Arrows
        * Arrow of Infestation
        * Arrow of Oozing
        * Arrow of Weaving
        * Arrow of Wind Charging
* Added 3 new Music Discs by Aaron Cherof and Lena Raine
* Added 20 new Paintings
     * 5 by artist Sarah Boeving
     * 15 by artist Kristoffer Zetterstrand
* Redesigned Bad Omen to give access to Ominous Events
* Added 6 new Status Effects
     * Infested
     * Oozing
     * Weaving
     * Wind Charged
     * Raid Omen
     * Trial Omen
* Added 9 new music tracks by Aaron Cherof, Kumi Tanioka, and Lena Raine
* Added 8 new Advancements
* Added 4 new cave ambient sounds
* Boats are now leashable
* Removed Herobrine

**COMPLETE CHANGELOG**
* [Here](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-java-edition-1-21)!

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>

Cross-platform server jar:<br>
* [Minecraft server jar](https://piston-data.mojang.com/v1/objects/450698d1863ab5180c25d7c804ef0fe6369dd1ba/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)<br>